README.md, before:

# Stowaway

A real-time sensor data logger, originally developed for containers monitoring.

## Raspberry Pi 3 initial config

Download Raspbian minimal image, extract it and burn it to the micro-SD card (make sure you select the appropriate output device!):

    dd bs=4M if=2017-01-11-raspbian-jessie.img of=/dev/sdd
    sync

Connect a keyboard and a display to the Raspberry and boot from the micro-SD card. Login as `pi` with password `raspberry`. Then:

    sudo raspi-config

- Select the `Expand Filesystem` option.
- Under `Advanced Options`:
  - Enable SSH.
  - Enable I2C.

Reboot.

Make sure to change your default password with `passwd` and add your public key to `.ssh/authorized_keys`. Check that you are able to log in through SSH without needing to enter the password and then disable SSH login with password:

    sudo sed '/PasswordAuthentication yes/s/.*/PasswordAuthentication no/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config | grep PasswordAuthentication
    sudo systemctl restart ssh.service

Upgrade and install dependencies:

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get upgrade
    sudo apt-get install git i2c-tools libzmq3-dev

Download and install Miniconda:

    wget http://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-armv7l.sh
    # Make sure you verify the checksum at https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/
    chmod +x chmod +x Miniconda3-latest-Linux-armv7l.sh
    ./Miniconda3-latest-Linux-armv7l.sh

Log out and back in (close and reopen SSH session). You may also want to delete the script you just downloaded.

Then, allow `pi` user to access I2C:

    sudo adduser pi i2c

Log out and back in (close and reopen SSH session).

Verify that the user is able to detect the I2C interface. First list the available I2C interfaces and then take the I2C interface name and test it:

    i2cdetect -y $(i2cdetect -l | awk '{ print $3 }')

If everything went well, the output should look like this:

         0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  a  b  c  d  e  f
    00:          -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    10: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    20: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    30: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    40: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    50: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    60: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    70: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --

Clone the project and create a virtual environment:

    git clone https://github.com/CojoCompany/stowaway.git
    cd stowaway
    conda create -n stowaway python=3
    source activate stowaway

Then, within the virtual environment, install the required packages:

    pip install --upgrade pip
    pip install -r requirements.txt

Optionally, Stowaway can send data in real time over the network using ZeroMQ. To activate that functionality, just make sure to install `pyzmq`:

    conda install pyzmq

### Mariadb Set up

Download and install mariadb server and client

    sudo apt-get install mariadb-server
    
Configure and create the data base for sensors info ('sensors'), a new user ('cypress'), password ('cypress') and privileges
    
    mysql -u root -p
    mysql> CREATE DATABASE sensors;
    mysql> CREATE USER 'cypress'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'cypress';
    mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON sensors.* TO 'cypress'@'localhost';
    mysql> flush PRIVILEGES;
    mysql> quit

Download and install MySQLdb module for python within the virtual environment and required dependencies

    sudo apt-get install libmysqlclient-dev 
    pip install mysqlclient
    
    
## Connecting the CY8CKIT-048 to the Raspberry Pi 3

Communication between the modules is implemented over I2C, being the Raspberry the master module and the CY8CKIT-048 the slave.

Although not mandatory, it may be convenient to connect not only the I2C SDA and SCL pins, but also GND pins (specially if the boards are powered from different sources).

| Raspberry pin | CY8CKIT-048 pin |
| --- | --- |
| I2C1\_SDA (pin 3) | SDA (P4.1) |
| I2C1\_SCL (pin 5) | SCL (P4.0) |
| GND (pin 39) | GND |

Commit message:

Include the description of mariadb configuration for remote access on raspberry pi

README.md, after:

# Stowaway

A real-time sensor data logger, originally developed for containers monitoring.

## Raspberry Pi 3 initial config

Download Raspbian minimal image, extract it and burn it to the micro-SD card (make sure you select the appropriate output device!):

    dd bs=4M if=2017-01-11-raspbian-jessie.img of=/dev/sdd
    sync

Connect a keyboard and a display to the Raspberry and boot from the micro-SD card. Login as `pi` with password `raspberry`. Then:

    sudo raspi-config

- Select the `Expand Filesystem` option.
- Under `Advanced Options`:
  - Enable SSH.
  - Enable I2C.

Reboot.

Make sure to change your default password with `passwd` and add your public key to `.ssh/authorized_keys`. Check that you are able to log in through SSH without needing to enter the password and then disable SSH login with password:

    sudo sed '/PasswordAuthentication yes/s/.*/PasswordAuthentication no/' /etc/ssh/sshd_config | grep PasswordAuthentication
    sudo systemctl restart ssh.service

Upgrade and install dependencies:

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get upgrade
    sudo apt-get install git i2c-tools libzmq3-dev

Download and install Miniconda:

    wget http://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Linux-armv7l.sh
    # Make sure you verify the checksum at https://repo.continuum.io/miniconda/
    chmod +x chmod +x Miniconda3-latest-Linux-armv7l.sh
    ./Miniconda3-latest-Linux-armv7l.sh

Log out and back in (close and reopen SSH session). You may also want to delete the script you just downloaded.

Then, allow `pi` user to access I2C:

    sudo adduser pi i2c

Log out and back in (close and reopen SSH session).

Verify that the user is able to detect the I2C interface. First list the available I2C interfaces and then take the I2C interface name and test it:

    i2cdetect -y $(i2cdetect -l | awk '{ print $3 }')

If everything went well, the output should look like this:

         0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  a  b  c  d  e  f
    00:          -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    10: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    20: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    30: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    40: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    50: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    60: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --
    70: -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --

Clone the project and create a virtual environment:

    git clone https://github.com/CojoCompany/stowaway.git
    cd stowaway
    conda create -n stowaway python=3
    source activate stowaway

Then, within the virtual environment, install the required packages:

    pip install --upgrade pip
    pip install -r requirements.txt

Optionally, Stowaway can send data in real time over the network using ZeroMQ. To activate that functionality, just make sure to install `pyzmq`:

    conda install pyzmq

### Mariadb-MySql Set up

Download and install mariadb server and client

    sudo apt-get install mariadb-server
    
Modify configuration to include remote access. Find the line bind-address on the file 'my.cnf' and change 127.0.0.1 by 0.0.0.0. Save the file

    sudo nano /etc/mysql/my.cnf
    
Restart service

    sudo service mysql restart

Configure and create the data base for sensors info ('sensors'), a new user ('cypress'), password ('cypress') and privileges
    
    mysql -u root -p
    mysql> CREATE DATABASE sensors;
    mysql> CREATE USER 'cypress'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'cypress';
    mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON sensors.* TO 'cypress'@'%';
    mysql> flush PRIVILEGES;
    mysql> quit

Download and install MySQLdb module for python within the virtual environment and required dependencies

    sudo apt-get install libmysqlclient-dev 
    pip install mysqlclient
    
    
## Connecting the CY8CKIT-048 to the Raspberry Pi 3

Communication between the modules is implemented over I2C, being the Raspberry the master module and the CY8CKIT-048 the slave.

Although not mandatory, it may be convenient to connect not only the I2C SDA and SCL pins, but also GND pins (specially if the boards are powered from different sources).

| Raspberry pin | CY8CKIT-048 pin |
| --- | --- |
| I2C1\_SDA (pin 3) | SDA (P4.1) |
| I2C1\_SCL (pin 5) | SCL (P4.0) |
| GND (pin 39) | GND |
